The design of what Iris Weinstein I've worked with on the last three books really.
And she's terrific.
I mean, it's not very good.
If you want to be involved, I welcome you.
And the first time I did this kind of complicated design book was New Bachelorette of Ritchie.
And then if you could do very little, I could use it.
Now Iris and I, really, we sat in front of the computer screen every time there was a page that might possibly be an illustration.
We tried different patterns, different groupings, different sizes.
We, you know, thought a lot about whether to run the text around or how deep the margins and gumpers were.
So every page, really.
I mean, she's, you know, I was just really given up a set of choices to make and tried to make it on her.
She was really terrific.
We've got these permissions.
That's amazing.
Thank God I hired my research system.
Permissions, I mean, you could spend, you know, I did cheers.
You know, you could do it with this myself.
I mean, after two months ago, we only got about 40 pictures in there.
Cool.
My book is called A Gentle Magnus, and it's about bibliomania.
Oh, I know you wrote about bibliophilia.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
We just closed it with me.
Oh, yeah, yeah, that's weird.
No, that's brutal.
You know, so it's on France.
Oh, we've got the blues, what they call the blues.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And he called me, and he said, like, one of the books I've been asking this guy was to my editor.
He's Alan Peacock.
He's a big fan.
He's an editor-in-host.
In fact, I'm so impressed, one of the many things that you do is how much you use artifacts and all of your work.
Well, again, it came out of a Dutch book.
I mean, when I was doing what I conceived as an anti-political chair of daily life, it seems to be crazy and not to say because of visual culture and how I really, really seriously, but it's not just simply an illustration in the sense of
supporting an algorithm you would make, a conclusion you would draw from textual documents that actually, you know, since images were everywhere, not just in paintings and prints, but on tiles and engraved glasses, painted furniture, painted tulips everywhere you would look,
I thought, well, there may be something really which the object, you know, the kind of, you know, bric-a-brac applied to actually speak in a way which more formal doctrines could.
So I then really tried to show myself as an architect historian, really, quite seriously, and spent a lot of time putting in the air, having really impossible German theory.
As a historian, how do these things energize the work?
Well, actually, it's rather like going... You know, you know you want to study books when you go to the library.
And it's impressively, with any luck, like, you know, I do miss Widener Library in New York.
It's the book next to the book you thought you were looking for that actually turns out is what you actually were looking for.
That's why I love going to the start of Widener.
Yeah, exactly.
I think for one thing, it's like... I can't tell you how many times I have to meet this.
So it's really...
When you're working in great visual archives, you know, a terrific kind of archive, which are archival of the cinema as well as former films in Ireland, you know, that whole chapter about Standard Wales, you know, it's so startled to find in the list about, you know, 60, 70 films, all of Standard Wales was in a quite narrow time band.
It wasn't that, you know, the tide suddenly shifted, but that they got obsessed with these things, really.
basis to the object of nature and is taught to do it, and it's good enough in a way to, you know, the inscription of nature, something that they deal with Russian history, of obsession.
It's kind of irrational, actually, looking like Dutch promoting it.
you know, organised, rational, optimising, utilitarian culture.
And I thought, no, no, no, you know, Voltaire didn't call Holland China for nothing.
It had underlying strangeness and oddity and obliqueness to the world.
And it enounced itself in that kind of material.
Are you fascinated by obsessions?
Yes, yes.
That whole book of obsessions... Oh, is that right?
I'm going to take my jacket off, actually.
The title of my book was Drinking Madness.
The first time I dared talk about the whale thing was actually in Bruce Maslitch's seminar at MIT, which is kind of on irrationality, irrationality in history.
Because he's interested in psychohistory and in psychology, and he's the only fellow of his kind.
So, yeah, no, I tell you, it goes back a long way.
You know my favourite book about the obsession with books?
I don't know if it's yours, actually, which I read when I was about 12, was Carnessie's Orme d'Affé.
Oh, it is, yeah.
I mean, it's just a stunning book, actually.
The first chapter I saw about the literature.
Right.
The best book.
That's Peter Klein, A-I-E-I, the professor.
He learns himself.
Oh, God.
Right.
He's got that.
This woman.
The woman was a broad scum.
What's so funny?
What's amazing about that book is people don't realize that.
No, he never read it.
He thought about it again.
I mean, it's not all good.
He then became a historian on the session in Clouds and Powers, really, again, about the...
I can't tell you how anxious I was just now when you said your favourite hook-up session.
I said, oh my God, he's going to name something I don't know.
You know, how you're sitting there, that kind of thing.
I've seen it.
I'm sad.
I'm with Chris Lyson just before you.
And now Simon Sharma, the man who knows everything.
It's totally unfair, and it's very unfair that the lads on my hair is made for me.
In fact, I have to also name the road.
And then the balance is ending, you know, the answer to the crime is what it is.
Actually, my screen is so brilliant.
I'm pretty sure it's an old screen, and I'll send Diane's possession of this magazine.
A wonderful boat, yeah.
A wonderful boat.
It did in a bit with that seminar called Brian Swift.
You know, Brian?
Yeah, yeah.
Waterland is terrific.
And Brian was, while Antonio Barrett was doing that work, where on the trussies is laughing as they're after.
And he takes up anything like as good as a science book.
But it's also about kind of hunts for a particular loft.
It's called Ever After, but it's more about actually Darwin and what happens to Yad Vicar when he starts to make Darwin's bear clear.
Well, only to be embarrassed with the witch's tree, and I never got it in.
I wanted to mention the tulip media.
That was extraordinary.
People don't even believe that.
We couldn't mention that it was so crazy over tulip.
What I try to do is trace book media goes back 25 centuries.
Did you saw the picture again of the xylopeg in a Rosamund Patel picture?
I knew about it, I only known him for photographing.
I met Rosamund for Steve J. Gould and said, oh, I've got these things.
Oh, you went up to Farnaca, which is a dream of course.
Lend me that, but I've never actually told one of these things.
They're quite, yeah, they're fun in France.
They were a German expression to try to try.
Catherine the Great was very interested in silo-fakes and, you know, wood books and ordered some and had them in her library.
Catherine the Great had a terrific silo-fake.
Stephen and I are a really nice book I've collected.
It's quite fantastic.
It's called, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, but as a partner with Rosamund herself, she's an astonishing photographer, and I think she's not well enough.
Yeah, you saw that last book they did that begins with that terrifying collection of babies.
Wasn't that amazing?
Because I knew there's a painting, actually, of what he called the doctor who did those things.
And it's actually the last painting in the anatomy lesson tradition that we had.
And he's actually anatomising a dead baby.
And his own son, the anatomy prior-elect's son, is standing there paying attention to his father.
And the son is pointing to a skeleton.
It's a very complicated business of sound instructing.
the surviving son in issues of anatomy and mortality.
It's really true here.
But he was that doctor who, I had no idea that he had this gigantic collection of elaborately dressed and bejeweled and it's kind of a thing.
Terrible.
When I came back at the Georgia Club in New York, who looks like Steven was on the same... somewhere.
He gave the opening and I gave the ending, you know.
He talks about books that he has used, how they have helped him in his life.
He lives in New York.
This is quite a book.
I have to say, Susan is one of my very favorite books.
I guess I wonder how having produced this book which is acknowledged to be a classic.
Oh, is it intimidating to follow?
Yes, it is.
I mean, actually, it's really, I wrote after I started last day.
I thought it was a wonderful place.
That's not nearly as I mentioned.
Exactly, no, no.
But it was, that was just kind of vacation for a while.
I wrote it in two months.
Three months.
But this, in a way, I mean, sometimes I don't want to do a piece of narrative history, but I have actually very specific narrative history in mind, which would be the book After Next, which would be very sort of citizen-like in its structure and style over time.
But I did want to, in this book, it was sort of unfinished, for instance, when I was reading it again.
from that third chapter about something called the fear of drowning and you know just about the way the Dutch at the same time that they're taking dry land from wet they're physically establishing their own place to live they're also culturally establishing their own identity again to
So I thought to myself, well, you know, I want to take that kind of issue further.
But I wanted to do it in an opposite way.
I wanted to talk about a kind of idea of a homeland in which the point is not radical men's radical intervention, you know, kind of sovereign alteration, but it's something that knew as a world which has never been altered and that gives you your integrity and legitimacy.
So I thought then about, you know, Germany as a move forward to my own evil.
And then I started to sort of read lots of landscape history.
And it was a book, really, where the argument about myths and tribal identity, about natural sense of where is home,
was the kind of driving force that I knew there had to be stories in the United States.
I only write books with stories.
It was a hard book to write.
Yeah, it was a hard book to write for this one.
Yeah, because it was not led by the stories.
No, no, the stories are very brilliant, so to speak.
Yeah, that's right.
So, I mean, it had to have a kind of class and character, sort of themselves, guardians and custodians and storytellers about the traditions that I described.
So I think other books may be... I actually like the Grilled Tuna, if I could.
I like it well done.
It's just a faint pink inside, but not a rare.
I know a lot of people love it and see it.
Medium well?
Medium well is good, yeah.
They come with a little salad, or they come with a steak salad and put it on a plate.
Fine, let's do it.
It's a fun thing.
I'd love to sell it.
Yeah, so it was a sense in which, you know, Silicon Paddock really needed to share with one of the best sellers for about six months, you know, I mean, you can't, or at least I can't.
I had a wonderful type of show, a fantastic editor, but my editor in class was another friend, and she believes, you know, you have to
the books you might arrive.
It has this kind of secret theory of, you know, the truck comes round the bend bearing your name and number on it.
Or you say, damn, I ought to have written that.
Not because of this part two, but I really, really ought to have written that.
So, you know, speaking of obsessions, you know, you kind of unburden your obsession.
But the kind of
negotiation with a readership comes in one's care and pleasure in making the argument through the story rather than kind of lecturing.
I mean, I beg to try not to do prose lectures.
The introduction was a bit, I mean, that really was written many times.
The introduction, it's not, you know, as detailed it is, it's not, it's from 15 pages.
No, I know you're not there, no, no, but I'm saying it was
You know, actually publishers on the app wanted to be longer, and I said, no, no.
I wrote the introduction in a way, I mean, the introduction is actually the introduction.
And then the whole of the Polish story is a kind of introduction.
I wanted actually almost to begin the whole book with that Polish story.
The publishers said, no, no, you need something more abstract to say, what kind of object is this that is weird enough to do.
I think they were right.
I'm sure they were right.
I was happy to do this.
You've used the word obsession now at least four times.
I do truly describe it.
You become obsessed with it.
So is the hype.
It was great playing with my family.
And this work, I mean, you're going to have to classify this one and tell me what you were attempting to do.
What you're reaching for.
Reviewing the New York Times is very interesting.
And you're developing a series?
In the Daily Times.
Yeah, that was a good review.
You know what the most interesting review would be?
You know, would be, of course, actually.
You know, Washington Times.
You know, they have a very, you know, you know his stuff too.
Yeah, you know, so incredibly on the ball, on the ground.
That is what I was doing.
Yeah, let me ask you a question first.
If you're anywhere you want.
No, I mean, you're aware, even when you take your time off, you're kind of in a grip of, you know,
of the obsession, and you're constantly going to clarify to yourself what it is, and also I did this book as live television films for the BBC, so actually I hope that I'm going to guarantee you that the TVS will take.
But when you do, when you rewrite them all over again on the television screen, I write the shots as well as, you have to forget you've written the book actually, because if you just simply write the shots as though they're illustrating, it just comes out again as a kind of lecture.
So that's another opportunity to say, well, what is it I mean here?
That's almost a sound bite too, isn't it?
It's really hard, totally hard.
The result isn't too shameful.
I was in the Jerusalem Book Fair, about a couple of months ago, and walking around, you have my home.
Something I hadn't seen ever, really.
You know, Moshe Sassi did a beautiful memorial of children and children.
And they're the entrance to that particular building.
It was a maple tree, a cutting from a maple tree, taken from Theresienstadt, from Theresienstadt, from Theresienstadt.
That was her at Highest Road in that field.
And it was, now it gets better as it all works.
It was planted in Theresienstadt by a schoolteacher, who was first in the Jewish New Year of the Tree in 1944, by her and her to be large.
Now that the class told her to survive, that the tree survives, and then a couple of years ago,
Nothing would take them, and take them to Yad Vashem.
And I thought, you know, you mustn't be incurring at us in your session.
Especially in a place where, you know, your book is the least important thing around here.
But it did seem to me...
a realistic instance of, you know, using the cycle of nature's consolation of the birth of the planet.
Do you feel... No, no, that was really... I thought the same was true even in his non-scale way of, you know, Bill Clinton the other day putting a tree of white habitat, you know, to stuff that little... Do you feel the vibrations?
Do you feel things... This book, more than any I've found... Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, the whole book was so totally better, I think, and there's more of my...
In the first place it was kind of a book and a project and an argument, a thesis, and I kept on having these experiences, partly because of going to my, you know, Great Gas Party as well, but not just because of that, some seemingly things are rippling for me, and certainly in a place I find, you know, I don't know what it is, you know, places sort of cool as there is.
I mean, even if I take the boat right now, we've got a little, you know, as Galera have, the ground drops down, they will shoot that before, you know, coming in the railway from Ohio and the boundary of the canal, made it impossible for those New England, New York fans to release me alive.
And so there's dry stone walls still there and they've been covered by second-grade forest, maintenance, second-grade forest.
But that's habitation, you know, a line of human habitation in the heart of something.
I mean, it's all the wrong way around.
It makes it so wonderful.
First you're supposed to have wilderness and then you're supposed to have habitation.
Here you have habitation and then you have wilderness.
like Cemetery in Poland, you know, and that I find incredibly interesting.
I remember reading of you, you spent some time with Coral in the book, and it was a pretty nice biography of him a few years ago, and I remember interviewing the guy out of Walden, you know what?
Not Edward Holden?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I don't remember any of your eyes.
There was great writing on that.
And I remember I did the interview with him.
We met him all the way, and we walked around.
So when you were describing these themes, my own discovery of it, and this feeling of place of actually being there.
But I'm wondering, in a book like this,
So many works of history, you just come with baggage, you just come with a piece of love, you have an idea of where you look.
This just sounds to me like it's an explanation.
There are two arguments to any prior life.
One was an attempt to argue with, you know, deep ecologists, with radical greens.
I'm a green, I mean, I'm an environmentalist, but I'm not the kind of environmentalist which sees things as engaging me for war the whole time.
One, I wanted to say, well, even though technology and corporate capital and the whole history of the West and the Left and the Europe have made it a struggle, you know, make one feel one's sort of held hostage, really, by the damage we can do.
That is not the entire story that needs to be told.
You read, you know, austerity, as they say, after austerity on the history of environmentalism, and as they teach environmentalism in India.
It's all about guilt.
It's all about, actually, all we've done in the West is treat nature, we've kicked it, said, feed me, work me over, develop me, bye-bye, on to the next day.
Well, no, that's absolutely not the whole story.
And the other story is indeed, you know, it's about...
There's a strong kind of Arcadian impact.
The oddity is that environmentalism wouldn't exist but for people like John Merle and Thoreau and Ruskin and people who were kind of overwhelmed by precisely the opposite impulse.
A wrestling match between these two instances, really.
Look, a hundred years ago, Theodore Roosevelt and Power, working with Gifford Fincher, not at all manages to take a hundred and twenty million acres out of commercial value of the government.
It's almost a great Republican administration.
Different kind of albums?
It wasn't a kind of retort in that.
It really just wanted to sort of speak to the kind of braving together of history and nature.
And the other crucial issue is I felt that these mythic traditions had a very, very long history.
They mutate and change and evolve.
I guess it's when I realized that grungy hill of Waterbury, Connecticut was actually a sacrivoxie.
You know, it doubted me it was.
But oh my god, even in the kind of generally redmond in sort of industrial America, it's extraordinary storage.
I've learned American, I'm just reading this section, we've got Americans, we've got our own here, it's been 25,000 years old.
But again, they're still in our school.
I was, you know, the reason I did the Albert Barber story is that the guy was very moved by his sort of medical background, but also that he built his reputation.
I mean, one of the writers who's most known to me is the author of Erwin Panofsky, who you know about, but Albert, Albert Barber, this little kind of Jewish popular term,
I'm interested in the long round of images, discovered that in the heart of what we think of as graceful, liberated, what you see is what you go at Renichal's painting, Patricelli's Primavera, you know, it just seems to be a kind of delicate grand celebration of commerce.
This kind of ancient, demonic demiurge, this kind of flattering, great gesture,
come from, as it were, the dark side of that.
It comes from the sort of, this kind of extraordinary gate crashing into the world of technology and reason and utility of the kind of primitive past that is incredibly annoying.
Sometimes it works out for good, sometimes it doesn't, as in the case of the Third Reich.
But generally, do you have a view of history that, as you would say,
You can go anywhere you want with it.
It's almost easier to say that the basics
By the way, that's training, right?
Training science.
Yeah.
You know, the basic programs that are set out for history, the triumph of the West, liberal capitalism, the failure of Marxism.
Those were always, to me, it's very odd, really, kind of seeing explanations of the interest.
History to me is a kind of exuberant mess, you know, really.
It's a kind of human habitation which always spills out of any advanced design one has.
It's not a terrible bit of recitation, you know.
It's sort of... You know that little book he wrote called A Hedgehog on the Frogs, really, and I've been accused of being very foxy, which is quite true.
I believe in plenitude, in multiplicity and pluralism.
So the history for me is a kind of, it's sort of a human escape from simplicity of order, really.
You know, it's a kind of richness and populousness and unpredictability, it's that contingency of accidents, and sometimes the accidents are happy and sometimes are very unhappy, in the case of the state of contemporary religion.
Go back specifically to this project.
Did you have a goal?
I mean, with citizens, you certainly have parameters.
Right.
Do you have the four corners?
No.
No, to be honest, I mean,
I wanted to go through these three different types of symbolic worlds, you know, forest, rivers, and rock.
They would defy, Arcadia I knew is much more written than that, you know, it's much more honest, but I thought rather that was zoo and forest walk and so on in ways I think they're sort of radically different.
But these three overwhelming themes touched inside those
One was the kind of war between civilisation, which always saw itself as vested in the streets and the squares of a castle temple, in other words, town civilisation, and its sort of terror of forest darkness as a kind of wild place.
And that kind of dialectic, you know, that sort of dialogue between
um you know newbury street and i don't know why i tried to find a wild place so the uh the first thing is a very important refrain really and the american and the english versus the kind of variants of the german so the notion of the first kind of alternative world the world of civility of law and engineering
The second great theme was, you know, the analogy drawn by the Greeks between the blood circulating around our body and the river system.
It mentioned there was a kind of mirror relationship between the laws governing the natural world and the laws governing human anatomy.
And that's why I began that whole section with, um, how was the world governed by machinery or by magic?
You resolve this, Joel Bartlett, you resolve everything, you know?
And I believe he did it, you know, wonderful lessons from Harvard's library.
But he did, you know, shut up in the cake house and I was saying, he was thinking those very big doors.
So I wanted to talk about that, and into that I said the memory of the Nile, and the notion of the dismembered God, and sacrifice.
There was plenty more, but to give you an example I left out.
You know, I deeply wanted to write about death, and the traditional thinking about death in the Mississippi, literally I didn't turn out trying to get a pilot.
I thought, God, you know, Trane is in Egypt, and then they're reading innocent broad.
Wouldn't it be great if he wrote about the two themes and the two men to see that?
But he's very boring on Egypt.
It's the only... I adore him.
I venerate him with no other writer, but his description of reading was... Oh, it's so feeble.
Oh, it's staggeringly good.
It's very dark, and, you know, it's terrifying.
So I thought no to Lewis and Clark, we won't do, for example it had a marvellous moment, which again I think these were the outtakes.
Do we have epipolous moments?
Yeah, I think when I saw the copieres, well when I saw it outside Cracker,
and it was a kind of burial mound of human artifacts that everybody assumed the form of a natural landscape the place of memory is actually something warped with our hands that is
And what do you feel at that moment?
A connection?
Well, yeah, but it sounds so hokey.
I mean, you feel... It's just an electrical connection, man.
You feel... It's not an electrical connection.
You feel you've found the bridge.
I mean, that's... You feel you've found it.
By indirect means, you stumble.
If I manage to tell the truth anyway, it's always a matter of, as we said, you know, the book next to the book, hitting your toe, saying, God, of course, you know, all of the books are sort of kind of ah-ha moments like that.
This would be impossible, as you say, at the very end of the book, to talk about the outcomes of feet.
I love that.
For me, you cannot get the story on the telephone.
I'm terribly passionate about the Civil War battlefield.
I'm not against Disney America at all.
Well, no, that's true.
I hate the way they're sentimentalising.
I was going to say, I did not want it there, because actually that would be the substitute for people walking and and all around us.
It's overwhelming.
It's wonderful the way it is.
Right, exactly, exactly.
No, exactly.
Right, well that was why it was so...
They're furious about it, furious about it, but they want to put it, you know, somewhere else.
I don't know if the people didn't want to read it.
I don't know if they made it.
Oh, basically as well.
Thrilled to have it if they'll just go to Ellison.
No, there's so many places to have it.
You're talking about the necessity of getting some storytelling.
Yeah.
I had ideas.
But you certainly have a sense of who your reader is, and you must have a sense of who you are.
I mean, this is serious.
It's also intended to be accessible.
I should just use the gap, would you like to?
You know, because by time, it's way off.
Just this week, I'm getting lots of really lovely letters, and between, you know, by the time you're ready to start actually writing the next book, you've kind of forgotten the book, because it's just a mixture of, you know, book launches, a mixture of egomania, and it's all sort of you, you, you.
So you kind of forget the way you get connected when you go to reading, for example, just the other night in Chicago,
giving a talk at the university, and two graduate students came up to me, and they're in public universities actually, and he said, my gosh, do they let you have this?
I said, do they let you have this?
You can remain graduate student, it's just a dangerous step.
We just wanted you to know how much your writing is mentored as a kind of counter-example to the pressures to be in tech or the academic, to find a kind of perfectly acceptable.
I was very lucky, I had a teacher in Jack Plum, and the man with the Archive of the Beast, Michael Richards, was a great historian of contemporary relations, a born, chaotic, brilliant writer, brilliant storyteller.
these fantastic scripts of Richmond.
And these people were outsiders, they came from old places, they came up through Oxford and Cambridge and the public period.
And they had never supposed there was anything disgraceful about the marriage between history and Richmond, you know, that Russia would be, you know, disenfranchised with all that work.
But they always liked each one as an undergraduate.
He'd spend maybe half an hour
looking over a single character.
His assumption was that history writing would not endure, would not actually ever reach beyond the narrow circle of the academy unless really you imagined the kind of, you know, an audience you were trying to hold, you know, as if you were in front of a campfire.
Theodore Zeldin, the historian actually,
I'd come and have an interview with him before we did the review, which was a terrible idea, but in London.
And he's a wonderful fellow, Delving, and he really is terrific.
He's just written a book called The Intellect History of Humanity.
sweetly crazy and brilliant.
He said to me, well, Simon, I know what you really wanted to be.
He said you wanted to be a storyteller in a medieval marketplace.
And I said, well, Theodore, it's never occurred to me before.
I didn't find anything shameful.
But he meant it totally generously, totally generously.
Well, it's actually to instruct where people, to instruct with that cane.
It's the mandate, I tell you, Nick,
The sense is to make people, when they're reading the book, or they're inside one of the stories, or in the case of citizens, like the whole story, is for a short time, before they go to burial, or in burial, or whenever they're reading it, to put them in another world which is as immediate, as vivid, as, you know, briefly real as it possibly can be.
That's what the calling told us, which is what Nietzsche said we should do.
You know, breaking bread with the dead, make the dead live again.
And I mean, all, I think, Chinese historical writers, as there are many, have this sort of greedy and patient with the kind of thinness of their own world, contemporary world.
I've never been able to understand people who do this.
I've admired them.
For people who do the history of the last 20 years, how we got to where we are now, I sort of feel that you do wonderful work, but you lead an impoverished life.
What about the 11th century?
And I tried that on, you know.
That's not one thousand, so if you get that right at all, then you manage to make people, you can bring them into contact with serious and difficult questions while they're in this kind of trial.
There's one person who wrote to me, I've never forgotten, writes to me from time to time.
from the Nana Baking Company in St.
Louis.
She's called Diane Rancatura.
And she's the sister... She's Toscanini's Ice Cream.
Toscanini's Ice Cream.
Okay.
A great, I think, Charlestown or... Anyway, she's the sister.
She wrote to me from the baking company, the Nana Baking Company, after written Citizens.
And she literally kind of read it while, you know, operating the dough machine.
and she'd have it in her, she'd describe herself having it in her left hand and making sure the dough came out of my right.
She wrote to me as absolutely as though Mirabeau was still alive and, you know, Madame Lecoultre Canne was still running her farm in Connecticut.
And it was wonderful, totally, you know, barely finished high school, no college education, complete for auto attacks, really.
You know, if I think, well, who would I want to read this?
I think of her and people like her, really.
So you do want to read her a moment?
Not when you're actually in the act of writing.
When you're in the act of revising, I do.
You get to the end of the day, you have it within you to write for your poems.
Yes.
So they're exploiting the other end of the day.
You know, I think, now I'm too old to really... So, yeah, I mean, I did, for example, the book was more...
I've written it three times.
The first time was those lecturers that came to university.
And there are multiple problems.
I was actually delivering these lectures in front of people who had told me 30 years ago.
I was shaking in my shoes, I promise you.
You're judging me, aren't you?
Absolutely.
Um, and then, you know, oh, smoke and mirrors.
Actually, it was wonderful.
One of the English interviews, an anonymous Oxford historian was quoted, on condition of anonymity, surprise, surprise, in Oxford, not Cameron, saying, oh, Shana, stuntman, total show.
Actually, I thought, well, he's probably right, actually.
But that was the sense in which, you know, I do impermissibly, I don't know, you know, kind of imaginative or flamboyant things, whatever it is, but...
But actually, yes, I do write, I still do write, you know, perfectly serious scholarly articles, I think.
But, you know, you have a responsible job, your day job is teaching you, you know?
Well, that's what I almost think is my next question.
Did you begin your professional career as a writer?
Good question, but the fact is,
I got one of these kind of baby professor jobs, you know, just after I graduated, you could do this in the year of 1966.
Long time ago.
In those days in Oxford and Cambridge, if you did well in your exams, traditional went back to the 1850s, you got a job.
I was paid £800, £1,000 a year, pretty much.
You know, that was my salary.
And you're transformed and loving.
And once you do it, it's not enough to be undergraduates.
Everything's from Charlemagne to Winston Churchill, and that again.
And there's nothing I was not supposed to do in the crowd for tea.
It was really, you know, foreign to the world.
And you're sort of a little surprised at being this.
So if you didn't have a real appetite for teaching, you're in trouble.
I always, for me, writing was the power of the exercise, really.
But I do enjoy teaching.
I always enjoyed lecturing.
My father was a great kind of hand actor, not professionally, but he was a sort of disappointed chairman, really, who went into textiles, you know, before the journey was very funny.
But he continued to be a great kind of producer of very classy amateur Shakespeare, everything from vaudeville to Shakespeare.
He put me on my feet and, you know, said, the Jew's only real weapon is a mouse.
I'm not sure it's necessarily true.
But, you know, he made me do circuits in public speaking and debating.
He worked for the theater all the time.
And he was a great teacher in his way.
He was my own father instead of a teacher.
Now, I don't know about the works in progress or what you have planned, but let me also ask.
You know, you look at Francis Clark when he's the historian of America, and you think of Gibbon and Malone, and you think of Dumas Malone, a lovely biography.
So, how do you see yourself as producing a corpus of related things?
Well, they're all about, they're all about, I mean, no, I mean, I really, there'll be a corpus in front of me, apparently, I don't know what they should say, but they're all about.
even i say in the case of the citizens really not the case that was a diversion i wanted to call it an entertainment no no no i want literally i told it was like a novel yes i said i want you to call it
It's underneath the title, it should say, an entertainer with apologies to Graham Greene.
Actually, that's a song that they should have.
Yes, they bloody well should have.
Yeah, there's been a lot of stories, nothing at all.
Anyway, the rest have really all been about...
you know, what I call tribal identity, about kind of the way in which cultures, in particular times, have sort of asserted, who are we and where do we go from here?
I mean, well, there was sort of French trying to radically turn themselves upside down and inside out in order, as Harry insisted, in that book, to kind of rediscover Frenchies that had sort of been left under the absolutism of the old regime or the Dutch
discovering involuntarily almost that they were a kind of distinct entity or you know the Rothschild book was about the peculiar kind of implantation against kind of French money and Polish views in Palestine and many of the books are really about that the next book I'm about to do actually however will not be about that
There are books about Rembrandt.
Oh, he's a collector.
Yeah.
Lots of books, though.
It's very surprising to me, always, because he was so literary, actually.
And he was proud of it.
I mean, he was fairly happy to see his assets.
Yeah, no, it was a thing called a sette abonora.
It's a way of not paying...
But the book after that, which I had, did I do?
is about Hawaii, which I've been to many, many times and looked in the archives and have a little library about 19th century Hawaii.
That'll be a book, it will mostly be about 19th century Hawaii, entirely about
It's strange that Hawaii became American, and what kind of identity could Hawaii possibly have had in the 19th century, and the kind of collapse of the traditional monarchy.
So that would be kind of a large, epic narrative that I imagine.
I have to call out for under the overwhelming embrace of James Smith, and you have nothing to worry about.
How many reviews, however, do you think you've got to do that?
Oh, many, many.
You must know this going in.
Right, exactly.
But on the other hand... There's a great writer who I really recommend to, called Gavin Dawes, who's Ross Taylor, in his late 50s, who writes brilliantly about why.
In fact, it's struggling to me.
Nobody else in America seems to be interesting.
They see him, like, instead of writing a few kitsch.
Not as a kind of great, tragic character.
It's the most extreme case of, you know, I found it painful to write about England.
Of course it is.
I'd like to sort of do a stretch.
I mean, I think I'd sort of work best and write best when I have to kind of reach towards another culture because I'm going to get put together.
Oh, sure.